# territorial-thermoregulation-trade-off-in-a-dry-forest_rscript

Hello, I share the manuscript entitled “Temporal trade-off between territorial and thermoregulatory behaviors of a generalist lizard in a dry forest”. I and my co-authors sent to the international peer-review journal, Oecologia. 
Also, I share the data used to replicate my results using the attached rscript. 
I did linear models, generalized linear models, generalized linear mixed models and the corresponding tests to test the assumptions of the models for this research.

Now, I describe this research. We explored the temporal trade-off between territorial and thermoregulatory behaviors in terrestrial ectotherms by quantifying the time that territorial males of a generalist lizard species (Sceloporus ochoterenae) spent displaying push-ups (a territorial behavioral display) and sheltering in shady spots (a thermoregulatory behavior) in territories with different percentages of vegetation cover during the dry season of their mating season in a seasonally dry tropical forest. After confirming a negative relationship between these two behaviors, we used confirmatory path analysis to evaluate alternative hypotheses about the relationships among vegetation cover, microclimate temperature, the presence of territorial intruders, and male behavior. We found that focal males spent more time performing push-ups in more open territories, thus prioritizing territorial behaviors over thermoregulatory and antipredatory behaviors. Our results are similar to those of two recent studies in aquatic animals. To our knowledge, this is the first study of its kind in a terrestrial ectotherm, specifically in a habitat where the main thermal pressure is to cool down, rather than to warm up as in cool environments, which are very different scenarios. These results are especially relevant given the current rates of habitat warming due to deforestation and climate change, which are disproportionately affecting tropical ecosystems. 
